<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2834_002_T48_60116530111">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2834.002</ph> Policy.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">The Small Business and Federal Procurement Competition Enhancement Act of 1984 allows an executive agency to establish a dollar threshold for the designation of a major system, in accordance with Public Law 98-577. Dollar thresholds for a major system under OMB Circular A-109 are designated in this section.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Major automated information system.</i> Within DOJ, a major automated information system is one whose life-cycle cost is in excess of $100 million.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Major real property system.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			By purchase, when the assessed value of the property exceeds $60 million.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) By lease, when the annual rental charges, including basic services (<i>e.g.,</i> cleaning, guards, maintenance), exceed $1.8 million.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) By transfer from another agency at no cost when the assessed value of the property exceeds $12 million.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) <i>Research and development (R&amp;D) system.</i> Any R&amp;D activity expected to exceed $500,000 for the R&amp;D phase is subject to OMB Circular A-109, unless exempted by the HCA or designee under paragraph (e) of this section.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) <i>Any other system or activity.</i> The HCA or designee responsible for the system may designate any system or activity as a Major System under OMB Circular A-109, <i>e.g.,</i> selected systems designed to support more than one principal organizational unit.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) <i>Exemption.</i> The CAO, upon recommendation by the HCA or designee responsible for the system, may determine that, because of the routine nature of the acquisition, the system (<i>e.g.,</i> an information system utilizing only off-the-shelf hardware or software) will be exempt from the OMB Circular A-109 process, even where by virtue of the life cycle costs it would otherwise be identified as “major” in response to OMB Circular A-109.




</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
