<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2833_102_T48_60116429112">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2833.102</ph> General.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) This part prescribes policies and procedures for processing protests to DOJ in accordance with with FAR 33.103 and Executive Order 12979, Agency Procurement Protests, dated October 25, 1995.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Contracting officers and contractors are encouraged to use their best efforts to resolve concerns outside of the protest process through frank and open discussion as required by FAR 33.103(b) or through alternative dispute resolution techniques where appropriate.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) Responsibilities are as follows:
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(1) <i>Contracting officers.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(i) 
			Include the provision at JAR 2852.233-70 in all solicitations that are expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(ii) When serving as the Deciding Official, decide the protest using the procedures in this subpart and FAR 33.103(d)(2).
</p>
         <p outputclass="List3">(iii) If the protestor requests that the protest be decided at a level above the contracting officer, the contracting officer shall ensure that the Agency Protest Official, once designated, receives a copy of the protest and any other materials the protestor has provided to the contracting officer in support of the protest.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) <i>Agency Protest Official.</i> The APO shall use the procedures in this subpart and FAR 33.103 to provide an independent review of and decision on the issues raised in the protest.




</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
