<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2803_104_7_T48_6011603114">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2803.104-7</ph> Violations or possible violations.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) Upon receipt of information regarding a violation or possible violation of 41 U.S.C. 2102, 2103, or 2104, the contracting officer must make the determination required by FAR 3.104-7(a) and follow the procedures prescribed therein.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Make the determination required by FAR 3.104-7(a) and follow the procedures prescribed therein.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) [Reserved].
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) The individual referenced in FAR 3.104-7(a)
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			is the BPC.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) The HCA or designee must follow the criteria contained in FAR 3.104-7(g) when delegating authority under this subpart.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) The HCA or designee shall refer information regarding actual or possible violations of section 41 U.S.C. 2102, 2103, or 2014 to the OIG or other office designated in Attorney General Order 1931-94.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) If the HCA or designee, after receiving information relating to a violation, or possible violation, determines that award or extension of a contract potentially affected by the violation is justified by urgent and compelling circumstances, or is otherwise in the interest of the Government, then the HCA may authorize the contracting officer to award or extend the contract after notification to the OIG or other office designated in Attorney General Order 1931-94.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) The HCA will advise the contracting officer as to the action to be taken. Criminal and civil penalties, and administrative remedies, may apply to conduct that violates 41 U.S.C. chapter 21, see FAR 3.104-8.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(g) The contracting officer shall advise the SPE in writing of all allegations of violations. The contracting officer must describe the alleged violation as well as actions taken.


</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
