<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_2852_212_4_T48_60116741215">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">2852.212-4</ph> Contract Terms and Conditions, Commercial Items (FAR Deviation).</title>
      <conbody>
         <p xtrc="P">As prescribed in JAR 2812.301, insert the following provision:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="HD1">Terms and Conditions - Commercial Items (NOV 2020)
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">When a commercial item is contemplated (using FAR part 12 procedures or otherwise) and the contract will include FAR 52.212-4, the following replaces subparagraph (g)(2); paragraph (h); subparagraph (i)(2); paragraph (s); and paragraph (u), Unauthorized Obligations, of the basic FAR clause, and adds paragraph (w), as follows:
</p>
                                 <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(g)(2) Invoices will be handled in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prompt payment act regulations at 5 CFR part 1315, as modified by subparagraph (i)(2), <i>Prompt payment,</i> of this clause.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="STARS"/>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(h) <i>Patent indemnity.</i> Contractor shall indemnify and hold harmless the Government and its respective affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents, successors and assigns (collectively, “Indemnities”) from and against any and all liability and losses incurred by the Indemnities that are (i) included in any settlement and/or (ii) awarded by a court of competent jurisdiction arising from or in connection with any third party claim of infringement made against Indemnities asserting that any product or service supplied under this contract constitutes infringement of any patent, copyright, trademark, service mark, trade name or other proprietary or intellectual right. This indemnity shall not apply unless Contractor shall have been informed within a reasonable time by the Government of the claim or action alleging such infringement and shall have been given such opportunity as is afforded by applicable laws, rules, or regulations to participate in its defense. This indemnity also shall not apply to any claim unreasonably settled by the Government which obligates Contractor to make any admission or pay any amount without written consent signed by an authorized officer of Contractor, unless required by final decree of a court of competent jurisdiction.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="STARS"/>
                                 <p props="Runin" outputclass="List2">(i)(2) <i>Prompt payment.</i> The Government will make payment in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act (31 U.S.C. 3903) and prompt payment regulations (5 CFR part 1315), with the following modification regarding the due date: For the sole purpose of computing an interest penalty due the Contractor, the Government agrees to inspect and determine the acceptability of any supply delivered or service performed specified in the invoice within thirty (30) days of receipt of a proper invoice from the Contractor, after which time, if no affirmative action has been taken by the Government to accept such supply or service, the supply or service will be deemed accepted and payment due thirty (30) days from the date of deemed acceptance. If the Government makes the determination that the item delivered or service performed is deficient or otherwise unacceptable, or the invoice is otherwise determined not to be a proper invoice, the terms and conditions of this paragraph regarding prompt payment will apply to the date the Contractor corrects the deficiency in the item delivered or service performed or submits a proper invoice. If actual acceptance occurs within the constructive acceptance period, the Government will base the determination of an interest penalty on the actual date of acceptance. The constructive acceptance requirement does not, however, compel Government officials to accept supplies or services, perform contract administration functions, or make payment prior to fulfilling their responsibilities.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="STARS"/>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(s) <i>Order of precedence.</i> Any inconsistencies in this solicitation or contract shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) The schedule of supplies/services.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) The Assignments, Payments, Invoice, Other Compliances, and Compliance with Laws Unique to Government Contracts provisions of the basic FAR clause at 52.212-4, and the Unauthorized Obligations and Contractor's Commercial Supplier Agreements - Unenforceable Clauses provisions of JAR 2852.212-4.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(3) FAR 52.212-5.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(4) Other paragraphs of the basic FAR clause at 52.212-4, with the exception of paragraph (o), Warranty, and those paragraphs identified in this deviation of 52.212-4.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(5) Addenda to this solicitation, contract, or order, including contractor's Commercial supplier agreements incorporated into the contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(6) Solicitation provisions if this is a solicitation.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(7) Paragraph (o), Warranty, of the basic FAR clause at 52.212-4.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(8) The Standard Form 1449.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(9) Other documents, exhibits, and attachments.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(10) The specification.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="STARS"/>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(u) <i>Unauthorized obligations.</i>
                                 </p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) Except as stated in paragraph (u)(2) of this clause, when any supply or service acquired under this contract or order is subject to any Commercial supplier agreement that includes any language, provision, or clause requiring the Government to indemnify the Contractor or any person or entity for damages, costs, fees, or any other loss or liability that would create an Anti-Deficiency Act violation (see 31 U.S.C. 1341), the following shall govern:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(i) Any such language, provision, or clause is unenforceable against the Government.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ii) Neither the Government nor any Government authorized end user shall be deemed to have agreed to such clause by virtue of it appearing in the commercial supplier agreement. If the commercial supplier agreement is invoked through an “I agree” click box or other similar mechanism (<i>e.g.,</i> “click-wrap” or “browse-wrap” agreements), execution does not bind the Government or any Government authorized end user to such clause.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Any such language, provision, or clause is deemed to be stricken from the commercial supplier agreement and have no effect.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(2) Paragraph (u)(1) of this clause does not apply to indemnification by the Government that is expressly authorized by statute and specifically authorized under applicable agency regulations and procedures.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="STARS"/>
                                 <p outputclass="List1">(w) <i>Commercial supplier agreements - unenforceable clauses.</i> When any supply or service acquired under this contract or order is subject to a contractor's commercial supplier agreement, the following shall be deemed incorporated into such agreement and modifies and replaces any similar language, provision, or clause in such agreement. As used herein, “this agreement” means any contractor commercial supplier agreement:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List2">(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this agreement, when the end user is an agency or instrumentality of the U.S. Government, the following shall apply:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(i) <i>Applicability.</i> This agreement is a part of a contract between commercial supplier and the U.S. Government for the acquisition of the supply or service that necessitates a license or other similar legal instrument (including all contracts, task orders, and delivery orders under FAR part 12).
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ii) <i>End user.</i> This agreement shall bind the Government as end user but shall not operate to bind the Government employee or person acting on behalf of the Government in his or her personal capacity.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(iii) <i>Law and disputes.</i> This agreement is governed by Federal law.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(A) Any language, provision, or clause purporting to subject the U.S. Government to the laws of any U.S. state, territory, district, or municipality, or the laws of a foreign nation, except where Federal law expressly provides for the application of such laws, is hereby deleted and shall have no effect.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(B) Any language, provision, or clause requiring dispute resolution in a specific forum or venue that is different from that prescribed by applicable Federal law is hereby deleted and shall have no effect.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(C) Any language, provision, or clause prescribing a different time period for bringing an action than that prescribed by applicable Federal law in relation to a dispute is hereby deleted and shall have no effect.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(iv) <i>Continued performance.</i> Notwithstanding any other provision in this agreement, if the Contractor believes the Government to be in breach of this contract, order, or agreement, it shall pursue its rights under the Contract Disputes Act or other applicable Federal statute while continuing performance as set forth in subparagraph (d), Disputes, of FAR 52.212-4.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(v) <i>Arbitration; equitable or injunctive relief.</i> In the event of a claim or dispute arising under or relating to the contract, order, or this agreement, 
				</p>
         <p outputclass="List4">(A) 
			binding arbitration shall not be used unless otherwise specifically authorized by agency guidance, and (B) equitable or injunctive relief, including the award of attorney fees, costs or interest, may be awarded against the Government only when explicitly provided by statute.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(vi) <i>Updating terms.</i>
                                 </p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(A) After award, the contractor may unilaterally revise terms if they are not material. Material terms are defined as:
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List5">(1) Terms that change Government rights or obligations;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List5">(2) Terms that increase Government prices;
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List5">(3) Terms that decrease the overall level of service; or
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List5">(4) Terms that limit any other Government right addressed elsewhere in this contract.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(B) For revisions that materially change the terms of the contract, the revised commercial supplier agreement must be incorporated into the contract using a bilateral modification.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List4">(C) Any agreement terms or conditions unilaterally revised subsequent to award that are inconsistent with any material term or provisions of this contract shall not be enforceable against the Government, and the Government shall not be deemed to have consented to them.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(vii) <i>Order of precedence.</i> Any Order of Precedence clause in any commercial supplier agreement is not enforceable against the Government. The applicable Order of Precedence for this contract, order, or agreement is FAR 52.212-4(s), as revised by JAR 2812.302 and 2852.212-4(s).
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(viii) <i>No automatic renewals.</i> If any license or service tied to period payment is provided under this agreement (<i>e.g.,</i> annual software maintenance or annual lease term), such license or service shall not renew automatically upon expiration of its current term without prior express consent by a properly warranted contracting officer, and any provision or term of any license or service purporting to provide for automatic renewal is unenforceable against the Government.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(ix) <i>Indemnification by the Government or end-user.</i> Any language, provision, or clause of this commercial supplier agreement requiring the Government or End-user to indemnify the commercial supplier or licensor is not enforceable against the Government.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(x) <i>Indemnification by the commercial supplier or licensor.</i> Any clause of this agreement requiring or permitting the commercial supplier or licensor to defend the Government as a condition of indemnifying the Government for any claim of infringement is hereby amended to provide that the U.S. Department of Justice has the sole right to represent the United States in any such action, in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 516.
</p>
                                 <p outputclass="List3">(xi) <i>Audits.</i> Any language, provision, or clause of this commercial supplier agreement permitting Contractor to audit the end user's compliance with this agreement is not enforceable against the Government. To the extent any language, provision or clause of this agreement permits Contractor to audit the Government's compliance under this contract, order, or agreement, such language, provision, or clause of this agreement is hereby stricken and replaced as follows:
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">“(A) If Contractor reasonably believes that the Government has violated the terms of this agreement with regard to the restrictions on authorized use and/or the number of authorized users, upon written request from Contractor, including an explanation of the basis for the request, DOJ will provide a redacted version of the Government's most recent Security Assessment and Authorization package (SAA) to Contractor on a confidential basis, so that Contractor may reasonably verify the Government's compliance with its obligations under this agreement. Contractor understands and agrees that the Government will remove or redact any information from the SAA that it reasonably believes may compromise (a) the security of the Government's information technology environment; (b) the confidentiality of any third-party proprietary or confidential information; (c) any confidential, sensitive law enforcement information; and (d) any other information that the Government believes may compromise a past, current, or prospective investigation, prosecution, or litigation. Notwithstanding the preceding, and subject to the Government's policies and procedures for such review, including but not limited to complying with all Government security requirements prior to being granted access to the Government's facilities, including the execution of appropriate confidentiality and/or non-disclosure agreements, the Government will arrange, upon Contractor's written request, for Contractor to view an un-redacted version of the SAA on Government premises. Contractor understands that Contractor will be provided a copy of the un-redacted SAA on Government premises only and that no un-redacted copy of the SAA, or any medium containing information relating to it, will be permitted to be removed from Government premises.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">(B) The Contractor also understands and agrees that the Contractor shall make a request under this paragraph no more than on an annual basis and only during the period of the contract, and that any activities performed by Contractor under this clause will be performed at Contractor's expense, without reimbursement by the Government.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">(C) Discrepancies found with regard to the restrictions on authorized use and/or the number of authorized users may result in a charge by Contractor to the Government. Any resulting invoice must comply with the proper invoicing and payment requirements specified in the contract. This charge, if disputed by the Government, will be resolved through the Disputes clause at 52.212-4(d); no payment obligation shall arise on the part of the Government until the conclusion of the dispute process.”
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">(xii) <i>Taxes or surcharges.</i> Any taxes or surcharges which the Contractor seeks to pass along to the Government as end user will be governed by the terms of the underlying Government contract and, in any event, must be submitted to the Contracting Officer for a determination of applicability prior to invoicing unless specifically agreed to otherwise in the Government contract.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">(xiii) <i>Non-assignment.</i> This agreement may not be assigned, nor may any rights or obligations thereunder be delegated, without the Government's prior approval, except as expressly permitted under FAR 52.212-4 (b), Assignment.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">(xiv) <i>Confidential information.</i>
                                 </p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">(A) During the term of this contract or order, either party may identify information as “confidential information,” and there shall be no disclosure, dissemination, or publication of any such information except to the extent required for the performance of this contract or order and otherwise provided in this clause or by statute or regulation. Specifically, the parties agree that the party receiving confidential information may only disclose such information to its employees and contractors on a “need-to-know” basis to carry out the obligations of this contract or order, and that subcontractors performing under this Agreement are subject to the same stipulations provided in this provision. The parties also agree that this provision shall survive the termination of this contract or order, and any confidential information obtained or received which comes within these restrictions shall remain confidential, provided that the obligation to treat information as confidential shall not apply to information which is or becomes publicly available through no improper action of the receiving party; is or comes to be in the receiving party's possession independent of its relationship with the disclosing party; is developed by or becomes known to the receiving party without use of any confidential information of the disclosing party; or is obtained rightfully from a third party not bound by an obligation of confidentiality. Additionally, nothing in this contract or order shall restrict disclosure by the receiving party pursuant to any applicable law, including but not limited to the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, <i>et seq.,</i> or an order of any court of competent jurisdiction, provided that in either such case the receiving party gives prompt notice to the disclosing party to allow the disclosing party to interpose an objection to such disclosure, take action to assure confidential handling of the confidential information, or take such other action as it deems appropriate to protect its confidential information.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">(B) The Government considers and hereby identifies as confidential any and all information related to any inquiries and/or searches performed by the Government or by contractor at the Government's direction under this contract or order, including the subject of any such inquiry or search and any and all search terms, regardless of whether provided in writing or orally to Contractor, and Contractor agrees that it may only disclose such information to its employees and contractors on a “need-to-know” basis to carry out the obligations of this contract or order and that it will not share, reveal, divulge, disclose, disseminate, or publicize any such information to any third party except as provided in this provision without the prior written approval of the Contracting Officer. Contractor also understands and agrees that any subcontractors performing under this contract or order are subject to the same stipulations and that Contractor may be held responsible for any violations of confidentiality by a subcontractor.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">(C) These provisions are consistent with and do not supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter an employee's obligations, rights, or liabilities created by existing statute or Executive order relating to (1) classified information, (2) communications to Congress, (3) the reporting to an Inspector General of a violation of any law, rule, or regulation, or mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, or (4) any other whistleblower protection. The definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and liabilities created by Executive orders and statutory provisions relating to whistleblower protection are incorporated into this contract and are controlling.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">(D) The Government may share the terms, conditions and prices set forth in this Order with, and provide a copy of the Order to, other Executive branch agencies of the U.S. Government, provided that the Government shall ensure that other Executive branch agencies to which it provides such information will be required to treat all such information consistent with terms and conditions set forth in this Order.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">(E) Notwithstanding anything in this agreement, the Government may retain any confidential information as required by law, regulation, or its internal document retention procedures for legal, regulatory, or compliance purposes; provided, however, that all such retained confidential information will continue to be subject to the confidentiality obligations of this Order.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">(xv) <i>Authorized users.</i> Authorized users may include full and part-time employees of the Government, including those working at or from remote locations, and contractors and contractor employees working within the scope of their contract with the Government, including those at or from remote locations.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">(xvi) <i>Authorized use.</i> Authorized users are authorized to use the product or service acquired under this contract in performing business on behalf of the Government. Any information obtained or acquired by the Government under this contract may be used by the Government in the performance of Government business.
</p>
                                 <p xtrc="P">(2) If any language, provision, or clause of this agreement conflicts or is inconsistent with the preceding paragraph (w)(1), the language, provisions, or clause of paragraph (w)(1) shall prevails to the extent of such inconsistency.</p>
                              </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
